---
title: 'Incident Report: Reports'
date: 2017-08-10 15:17:00 -04:00
position: 0
key_image: "/uploads/Reports%20Poster%20sm.jpg"
start_date: 2017-09-02 18:00:00 -04:00
end_date: 2017-10-15 18:00:00 -04:00
opening_start_time_and_date: 2017-09-02 18:00:00 -04:00
opening_end_time_and_date: 2017-09-02 20:00:00 -04:00
images:
- "/uploads/KDodge_09-01-17_MG_4497_crop_V1_sRGB_WebRes.jpg"
- "/uploads/KDodge_09-01-17_MG_4510_crop_V1_sRGB_WebRes.jpg"
- "/uploads/KDodge_09-01-17_MG_4520_crop_V1_sRGB_WebRes.jpg"
- "/uploads/BD1-LoveSeat_WEB.jpg"
- "/uploads/Edna%20Arloween.jpg"
- "/uploads/Helen%20Mirra.jpg"
- "/uploads/Nancy%20Shaver.jpg"
- "/uploads/Joan%20Linder.JPG"
- "/uploads/IncidentReport-Flag-WEB.jpg"
research_links:
  Incident Report: http://www.incidentreport.info
  Henry: http://soberscove.com/book/henry-at-home/
  Wave Farm: https://wavefarm.org/ta/artists/qm3rwx
  Publication Studio Hudson: https://publication-studio.myshopify.com/collections/pilot-editions/products/incident-report-no-1-100
  Two Coats of Paint: http://www.twocoatsofpaint.com/2017/09/up-in-hudson-with-suzanne-joelson.html?utm_source=MadMimi&utm_medium=email&utm_content=Seattle+Sunday%3A+post-internet+painting%2C+Calvin+Ross+Carl%2C+Cable+Griffith%2C+fantastic+utopias%2C+more&utm_campaign=20170917_m141480744_September+17%2C+2017&utm_term=Gallery+crawl+in+Hudson
  WGHXC: https://wavefarm.org/archive/38s5be
---

Incident Report, Reports

Opening: Saturday, September 2, 6-8pm
Exhibition: September 2 – October 15, 2017

INCIDENT REPORT is an experimental viewing station that has been located in Hudson, NY for the past ten years. We offer an interface between the many publics of the street, and the concepts and issues generated by visual thinkers. We engage in formally arranged projects, as well as improvised situations. 

At SEPTEMBER we present a framework for looking at Incident Report overall. IR has been an unpredictable series of projects; a storefront space that is sensitive to a constantly shifting town. IR will migrate up the street and into the gallery to present new works and the entire archive of all past 100 projects. 

Reports includes works by Nancy Shaver, Allyson Strafella, Maximilian Goldfarb, Tyler Rowland, Carla Herrera-Prats, Taylor Davis, Bruce Dow, Joan Linder, Nick Tobier, Edna Arloween, Chris Lee and Helen Mirra, as well as a decade of participants represented in a slideshow and new publication. Works are being added during the run of the show, including an anonymous pin and an installation in the bathroom by Rebekah Modrak.

Concurrently, Incident No.101 will be installed by Bruce Dow in the IR viewing station, located at 348 Warren Street, one block from SEPTEMBER. Dow installed Incident No.1 in 2007. 

The IR reading and performance programming including Anne Lauterbach and Richard Kennedy will take place on Saturday, September 23 at 5pm at SEPTEMBER. 

Poet and essayist Ann Lauterbach is the author of nine books of poetry, most recently Under the Sign (Penguin, 2013) and three books of essays; her 2009 poetry collection Or to Begin Again was nominated for a National Book Award. She has written widely on visual artists, most recently on Kenji Fujita and Johanna Tiedtke,  and has made several collaborations. She has taught in Critical Writing at SVA and was a visiting critic (sculpture) at Yale. Her work has been recognized by fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, and was the subject of a Conference in Paris in 2015. She is Schwab Professor of Languages and Literature at Bard College, where she is also co-Chair of Writing in the Bard MFA.  A native of New York City, she lives in Germantown, New York. 

Richard Kearney holds the Charles B. Seelig Chair of Philosophy at Boston College and has served as a Visiting Professor at University College Dublin, the University of Paris (Sorbonne), the Australian Catholic University and the University of Nice.
He is the author of over 20 books on European philosophy and literature (including two novels and a volume of poetry) and has edited or co-edited 14 more.
He was formerly a member of the Arts Council of Ireland, the Higher Education Authority of Ireland and chairman of the Irish School of Film at University College Dublin. As a public intellectual in Ireland, he was involved in drafting a number of proposals for a Northern Irish peace agreement (1983, 1993, 1995).
He has presented five series on culture and philosophy for Irish and British television and broadcast extensively on the European media. He is currently the international director of the Guestbook Project--Hosting the Stranger: Between Hostility and Hospitality.

For further information, please visit SEPTEMBER or contact kristen@septembergallery.com.