---
title: 'Reginald Madison: UNTITLED Miami'
date: 2022-11-26 15:59:00 -05:00
key_image: "/uploads/Reginald%20Madison%20-%20Saxophonist%20-%202015%20-%20repurposed%20found%20wood,%20hardware%20-%20100%20x%2033%20x%2029%20inches%20copy.jpg"
key_image_credit: Reginald Madison, Saxophonist, 2015, repurposed found wood, hardware,
  100 x 33 x 29 inches
start_date: 2022-11-29 11:00:00 -05:00
end_date: 2022-12-03 19:00:00 -05:00
---

SEPTEMBER is thrilled to present a solo booth with Reginald Madison, featuring selected works from the last four decades of the artist’s practice. The earliest work, 'Merc', 1992 is an oil on canvas self-portrait of the artist cradled and breastfeeding in his late mother’s lap while she fixes an internal gaze and smoke rises from a lit cigarette. Centrally featured in the booth is, Saxophonist, 2015, an extraordinary work that Madison constructed with scavenged wood scraps from an abandoned chair factory in Hudson, NY. Hundreds of found pieces layer and coalesce, visually animating the oversized figure mid-note. This significant work, along with a handful of others from the same timeframe, were made in honor of the legendary musician, composer, poet and leader, Sun Ra, an artist who has deeply influenced Madison since his early Chicago years. Also on view is a sprawling intersection of sculpture and painting titled Heliocentric, a magnificent and exuberant composition of hundreds of found strips of wood that the artist bent, wove, and connected. Finally, we are excited to announce that Madison is debuting a striking new series of robust tar and oil paintings on panel. Jostling with rounded and linear shapes Madison’s new works invoke familiarity, while landing firmly in abstraction.

Reginald Madison (b. 1941, Chicago, IL), painter and sculptor, was greatly influenced from a young age by experimental jazz musicians and visual artists working on the south side of Chicago. In 1970, Madison participated in an exhibition that helped establish him in the emerging art scene there, and later studied art independently in Paris, Venice, and Copenhagen. After moving to Western Massachusetts in the 1970’s, Madison was represented by Phyllis Kind Gallery, NYC. His work has been exhibited at the Art Institute of Chicago, Historic Hudson Hall, Ace Hotel Chicago, SEPTEMBER Gallery, CR10 Arts, False Flag Gallery, Rachel Uffner Gallery among others. Madison’s work has been covered by The New York Times, Times Union, Upstate Diary, and Whitehot Magazine. In 2020 Madison curated Art & Soul, an exhibition at Historic Hudson Hall that included the work of David Hammons and Tschabalala Self, among others. He organizes Melodius Thunk, a Jazz Music Festival in Hudson, NY. Madison is a 2021 recipient of the NEA Artist Residency at Basilica Hudson. His work is in the collection of Beth Rudin DeWoody and The Baltimore Museum of Art. Madison currently lives and works in Hudson, NY.